[MUSIC PLAYING]
MIKE LEWIS: I wanted to
play a really quick video,
mostly because it's been
a long time in the making
and I kind of feel like
we should put it to use.
So it's 90 seconds,
obviously hosted on YouTube.
So we're all good there.
And enjoy it.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- In May of 2014 I set in a
Boston airport with my life
sitting next to me in a
hulking baby blue roller bag
and a one-way ticket to
New Zealand in my hand.
I had a dream to
chase, a jump to make,
and someday a book I wanted to
write about how and when to go
do it.
Before I boarded this
flight, I asked a stranger
to take this video
as I spun my racket.
I was off to play the
professional squash tour.
Squash is a niche racket sport.
In squash you spin the
racket to start a match.
I was beginning to
start my own match.
My plans were for a few
months, maybe three, maybe six.
If I was lucky, I figured
I could couch surf
for the first few weeks,
stay with friends,
friends of friends,
host families,
strangers, just so I
can experience life
for a little bit as
they were living it.
And then something
funny happened.
The universe and
hundreds of strangers
helped to make my
dream come true.
A few months turned it
in nearly two years,
200,000 miles, six continents,
and about 50 countries.
In that time I spent
nearly every night
with people, bartenders
and fellow bus passengers,
single parents to Millennials.
I slept along farmlands and in
skyscrapers, along mountaintops
and across villages.
I stayed with creators and
makers and chefs and teachers,
skydivers, farmers,
activists, entrepreneurs.
Now, four years later, my
next dream is coming true.
The book of a story made
possible by these strangers.
A book about when to
chase your dreams.
A book about when to jump.
To the over 400 beautiful humans
who gave me a place to stay,
memory to treasure, thank you.
Truly, thank you.
I've got a couch with your
name on it in San Francisco.
[END PLAYBACK]
MIKE LEWIS: I did
not ever think--
and I truly believe this--
that I'd be standing here
talking about this book.
And I first want to say thanks
to Google for having me.
I also want to say thanks
to Google Headquarters
in San Francisco.
My roommate, who pushed me
to see this book through,
works at Waze, and
it was because of him
that I was able to eat on
Google's tab three to five days
a week.
Still do, so hopefully
this doesn't make
its way-- it probably will.
Sorry.
I am not an employee, just
a fan of the cafeteria.
But I figured since
we're in a smaller group
and this is the
last events we'll
do on the UK leg
of the tour, I'd
love to tell just my story
and a little bit of the why
and what made me want to
put these stories together.
And then, obviously, I would
love to hear about yours
and answer any questions
that might come up.
So backing up a bit, five years
ago I was sitting in my office,
and I picked up a
phone and called
a woman who I'd been reading
about in a magazine on my desk.
And the article was
about how this woman just
competed in the 2012
Olympics here in London.
At the very end
of the article it
talked about how she
worked in a corporate job
before becoming a cyclist.
And the rest of the article
is about the Olympics
and how it felt
and all this stuff,
and all I cared about was that
transition of doing something
that probably wasn't expected or
was a bit of a surprise to her
and maybe even a risk.
And she ended up picking
up the phone, which
was pretty weird
looking back on it,
and her first question was,
how did you get my number?
And I said, you know, I just--
I'd love to know what led
you to take this jump.
And what she said over
the next 45 minutes,
it had nothing to do
with being an Olympian
or trying to train to become
an athlete, and everything
to do with that voice in
her head and conversations
with her parents and what it
felt like to think of failure
and not maybe having a
job again if she couldn't
succeed at the next thing.
And it was funny because
earlier that night I'd
googled when to
chase your dreams.
Has anyone ever done that?
If you haven't, don't.
I'll sum it up for you.
You get two things.
One is a lot of the inspiration
and the feel-good stories.
And then on the other side,
you get the Instagram photos,
the beautiful LinkedIn posts,
the Facebook news feed updates,
which you kind of like
really don't want to read,
but then you end up reading, and
you're like, ah, my life sucks.
How did this person make it?
How did this happen so easily?
And while all that's great and
the inspiration's certainly
there, we're at no lack
of it on the internet,
what really struck me was that
there's a whole middle section
of doing what you love.
And that conversation
with the cyclist
covered what I call these
10,000 unsexy steps that
go with chasing a dream,
but no one talks about that.
You see the beginning
and then you
see kind of the
fairytale ending,
but you don't talk about
the restarts, the failures,
the insecurities,
the hesitations.
And to me, sitting in that desk
at work, it wasn't really about
do I take this jump or not.
It was about are there other
people who have done something
risky, whatever that may be.
And so I thought back
to 10 years earlier.
I grew up in
Southern California.
And who here plays squash?
Are there any squash
players, people--
one?
OK.
That's about average.
Do you know what squash is?
OK.
That's many more
than where I grew up.
Everyone thought
I was harvesting
vegetables in the winter.
There was one club within 200
kilometers of where I grew up
and it had the only courts
in those 200 kilometers.
And I found when I
was 14 years old.
And I thought someday I'm going
to play the highest level.
Does anyone know
the pro squash tour?
What about you?
You're the squash player?
Do you know of it?
Well, you are in the majority
of people who don't know much
about the pro squash tour.
It's like the pro tennis
tour, but the ugly
stepchild that no
one ever talks about.
It's similar.
You play by yourself
against somebody else.
But you don't make any money.
And in fact, when you
have a tournament that
goes through towns like
ours in Santa Barbara,
the families that are
part of the community
will host a player.
So I signed up our
family when I was 14
to host a traveling player.
And we had a conversation
that would come back to me
10 years later in
my office cubicle
after speaking to that
woman who was the cyclist.
Because the guy sitting
across the table from me
as a 14-year-old said, you
know, you should do this.
If you get good enough you can
play on mountains in Brazil
and cities in Asia
and go to Europe.
I'd never been out of
the country and so,
to me, that was truly
surreal, to think
there was a whole world out
there that you could explore.
And so I sat with this
story from a woman
10 years later saying that
you can chase your dreams,
but it's going to
be pretty tough.
And you're not alone
in trying to do it.
And so I sketched a cover page--
and this was five years ago.
And I was with my buddy
at work named Corey,
and we the last
two in the office.
Do you guys remember the
ice bucket challenge?
Yeah?
So Corey actually started
that for his friend
from Boston College named
Pete Frates, who has ALS.
Corey was this
larger than life guy.
I said, Corey, this
should be a book,
but this should be
actually a community where
you can come together,
share what you want to do,
have good food, beers,
talk about things that you
might otherwise feel
weird to mention.
Maybe it means totally
changing everything.
And then maybe it's just
doing something different
on the weekends, learning a
new language, volunteering.
I had started to collect
more of these stories
and it just seemed
like, whether it
was a fellow bus passenger
or Corey next door,
or the lady down at the
bar, or the receptionist
at the front desk, everyone
had this little voice
in their head.
And so I was sharing
this woman's story,
first anecdotally, and then kind
of writing it down and passing
it around.
And to be honest,
the reason I said
I didn't think I'd ever be here
is because I never really--
I mean, I guess I
sketched a cover page.
But I didn't think it'd
actually be a book.
I thought this would
give me permission
to tell my parents I'm not
totally crazy for leaving a job
that I really cared about.
I was working at a venture
firm called Bain Capital.
They're here, they're in Boston.
I felt like I won the
lottery to be in this role.
And I felt really
kind of selfish
to think of doing anything
different than what
my parents wanted, what my
five siblings wanted for me.
I felt like it'd be
weird to bring up.
And yet, here was this story
that was giving me permission.
And so I ended up joining
the Pro Tour part time.
I spent two years
and saved up money.
I talked to my friends at
work and my supervisor.
I said, I think I'm
going to do this.
And I was not a very good
squash player growing up.
That's kind of a detail
that the book leaves out.
But I wanted to give it a try.
And over what I call
these 10,000 unsexy steps,
of listening to the voice
and then making a plan,
and saving up and
playing tournaments,
I actually got to play my first
pro tournament while still
at Bain.
Took a sick day.
I went down to Virginia.
I was playing the
world number 90.
To give you perspective,
I was the world number
387, which may or may not--
should not sound impressive,
especially that if you
have an internet connection
and pay 100 pounds, you can
be the world number 387.
It is the last spot
on the Pro Tour.
So I had paid the money.
I was a pro player.
I go down.
I'd been training, feeling
pretty good about myself.
And I didn't score a point
in the first match, which
is actually really hard to
do, to not score a point.
But I managed to do it.
My dad had come down.
We kind of looked
at each other like,
is this the thing you're about
to quit your job to go do?
Because it doesn't--
might not add up.
And then after a few more
matches and a bunch more
saving, I ended up leaving Bain.
I took that video in
the Boston airport
and I moved to New Zealand.
And I thought three months
would be, at most, the tour.
And then I'd come back,
maybe go to grad school.
That seems like what you
do when you don't really
know what you want to do.
At least, to me that
was a safe landing.
Maybe, if they'd let me
back, go back to Bain.
Three months turned
into six months.
The first month of
tournaments, there
were probably 20 guys there
from 32 different countries.
And one person passed me
off to someone in Brazil
and then Australia,
and then someone
who's someone in France
and South Pacific.
Six months turned into 12
months, turned into two years.
And every night but one
I was with other people.
And every time I sat
down at a dinner table,
someone would ask me about
how I knew when to jump.
And so I'd pull out this one
story I had, and I'd say,
yeah I'm going to make
this a book someday.
Like, you know, obviously
it wasn't really going
to happen in my mind.
I wasn't an author.
And then, sadly, my buddy
Corey passed away really
early on in my trip.
And it kind of hit me that
we have this much time
or we have this much time
to go do what we want to do.
But we definitely don't
have this much time.
And part of Corey's
legacy was taking an idea
and making it something bigger.
And so while I was
playing squash,
I started back on the project.
And I got to all different
types of people--
The second baseman
for the Chicago Cubs
who left the Cubs
to go to college,
the first female bishop in the
Anglican Church who was in PR,
people at tech
companies like Google
who had actually
changed offices,
moved continents, stayed
within the company
but done something
totally different.
It really didn't matter
what the jump was,
but it was showing
that there was people
that were willing to take
it, and there was a community
to support that.
And so I came back two
years after leaving.
My parents were like, you
really need to get a job now.
And I was staying on my
buddy's couch in San Francisco.
What I figured out was in
most cities in the world,
you're unemployed if you're
on your friend's couch.
In San Francisco,
you're an entrepreneur.
So I was sitting on
my buddy's couch,
and it's the end of the year.
There's a holiday party
that someone invites me to.
And I say, sure, you know,
I'll just come along.
And I'd been working
on my stories, started
to interview for jobs.
And I bring my
stories my backpack
and I pull up a seat
at this holiday party.
And the woman next to
me was supposed to talk.
Didn't know that at the time.
She was the keynote speaker.
And she's like, you
know, what's your story?
I said, well-- and I had
kind of two decisions.
I either tell her
the real life thing,
like I need a job,
running out of money,
parents expect me to get a job.
Or I could dig in my
backpack and sure the stories
that I'd been working on.
And so I pull into my backpack
and I grab these stories.
And I'd used literally
some of the last cash
that I had saved up
on the squash trip
to get a graphic
designer to make a logo.
I had a blog set up.
I had been rejected
by every editor
I could ever reach out to.
And what I told her was, this
someday it will be a book.
And we're going to
have these festivals
where people can
have beers and talk
about what they want to do.
We're going to have a podcast.
We're going to have
a learning series.
It's going to be about doing
what you love in any way.
And right now we're just
starting with the blog,
but it's going to get there.
And she said, well,
you should just
tell these stories by video.
And I was like, lady,
you know, that's nice.
But I'm on my buddy's couch.
I got, like, four weeks left in
the bank and everyone's told me
I have to start with the blog.
She said, well, you
know, if it's helpful,
I think we could
really help you out.
We'd love-- my company
does video stuff.
We could partner together.
Just shoot me an
email if you'd like.
I said, oh, that'd be great.
So she hands me her
card and I look down.
It says Arianna
Huffington on it.
And I said, yeah, you'll
be hearing from me.
Yeah.
I will reach out, my brand.
And three weeks later I played
my last squash tournament
in New York City.
It was my last pro event.
And two hours before that
I sat across 15 executives
from the "Huffington Post."
And the first
question was, well,
is this a brand
or just a project?
I was wearing,
like, the same thing
I got off the tour wearing.
I had my backpack.
And I look over, I said, I'm
going to say it's a brand.
We are a brand.
And they said, well, we'd
love to partner with you guys.
And I said, well,
we'll think about that
and we'll let you know.
And then get in the
elevator and what do I do?
I Google, before I get
out of the elevator
to leave the building,
how do you start a brand.
And three weeks later
I met a literary agent.
She looked at me, she said, I
know people have rejected this.
But I think it may not be a
book, but it should be a book.
And I'm willing to
try to take this on.
And when we started to
collect more stories,
I think it became apparent
that "When to Jump"
wasn't about that big
fairytale ending that you see,
and moving to Bali and
everything just works out.
It was about taking agency over
these small and big decisions
in your life.
And there's a lot of books
out there on inspiration
and self-help, and do these
five things and it'll work out.
And I just think that's
not how life works.
It's funny.
Probably three weeks after
we launched our partnership
with HuffPost and
our brand began,
I was invited to
partner with Airbnb.
And at this point I was just
getting off my buddy's couch.
I told Airbnb we'd be
thrilled to partner with them.
And they had a member festival
that Ashton Kutcher and Gwyneth
Paltrow were also speaking at.
They said, why don't we
start our collaboration
with you sharing the stage?
I was like, can I get an
autograph or is that weird?
Like, I'm a huge Kutcher fan.
Anyway, I said, yeah.
Yeah, we have a platform.
We can come share that
platform with you.
Also, if you spend enough
time in Silicon Valley,
you just throw "platform"
in any sentence possible.
And so I go down to LA
and my parents came,
and they're sitting
in the first row
and doors hadn't opened yet.
And they came because we all
figured it might just be them
and that's totally cool.
I could always tell people I
got to partner with Airbnb.
And the talk was about how you
can use Airbnb to make a jump.
It turns out that
one in four hosts
use Airbnb to save up money
to go do something different.
So the doors open and we
ended up with 2,500 people
in the audience.
Now, I'd already made
a slideshow then.
And I'd expected
it to be parents
and maybe a few friends.
And so at the very
end of the slide show,
I actually had an email
address that went to me
but was this email
to our platform.
And I said to folks in the
audience, here's this email.
Send your jump for next
year to our platform,
and we will follow along
in what you're doing.
Because we have a very--
I threw out AI and smart
learning and big da--
blah, blah, blah.
And we'll follow up with you.
And I remember looking
down my phone afterwards--
and, of course, all
these went to me.
So I open my phone and went
from one in the inbox to 700.
And that weekend I
looked over 700 emails.
And the crazy thing
was almost all--
I think all but maybe 15--
had nothing to do with
changing your career.
It was the little things.
It was like, I want
to have a family
and also pursue a career.
I want to have more time
for my kids on the weekends.
I've always wanted
to go to France.
So people were using the
hosting income to make money,
and now they were
thinking of this concept
of jumping as like,
I want to control
the time I have in my day.
And I know that sounds
probably contrived or cliche,
but to me, I truly thought we'd
never get to talk to companies.
Because you might read the
book title and be like, well,
won't everybody leave?
And now I can tell you, when
we reached 3 million people
in our first video
with HuffPost.
We've been fortunate that the
festival concept has grown
and we're going to actually
bring it to London this year.
We've reached millions of
people through our community
and platform and,
hopefully, this book.
And very few of the
jumps are actually
about changing
everything in your life.
People say chase your passion.
I think that's really
awkward and weird to have
to think about at lunch time.
I'm all about taking
these little steps
and finding that one or two
things that kind of starts
to change your day.
And so today, like I said,
the platform is a platform.
Which, by the way, I got a
lot of feedback from Airbnb.
Fortunately it was positive.
We were with them yesterday.
But the most common
point of feedback
was, wow, people really felt
like even though it was AI,
they were talking to a human on
the other side of the screen.
I was like, I'll have to
tell our engineers great job.
Meanwhile I was like,
da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da
throwing out emails.
And so now we have a little
bit more behind the platform.
Now we're on whentojump.com.
We started a podcast
where every Tuesday we
have a 30 minute
conversation with anybody.
It could be someone who
moved within a company.
moved around the world.
My favorite conversations are
with people like this gentleman
last night in London who
absolutely loves flowers.
And his jump is on the weekends
he brings his skills to events,
and he uses flowers
to bring them to life.
He's still a project manager.
He works down the street from
here, but that's his passion.
And so we get enough of
those kind of data points.
And we're now rolling
out a directory
where if you're a
project manager turned
flower guy in London,
later this year you'll
be able to go and start typing
who else is a flower person.
And if you're traveling
in Chicago for work
and you love baking,
you can look up
people who have jumped into
baking and find those people.
We're actually doing a
private buildup for that.
So if you want to help me
out on that you can come
find me, because it's
going to start small.
But we think that
someday there'll
be a festival somewhere in
the world, like in London
this fall.
There'll be more
books like this.
There'll be companies like
Google that support that idea.
I think it's-- what is it,
area 120 that you guys have?
Where people can actually
take the full risk
of jumping and not actually have
to sacrifice so much on paper.
I wish I had that.
I wasn't so lucky
in where I worked.
I was lucky they supported
it, but it was pretty much
all or nothing.
There are organizations
now that support
the idea of jumping
because, if you do it right,
you actually have
a meaningful career
and you don't have to leave.
We didn't have that
where I worked,
but I think that's the way
the workforce is going.
And so we hope we're
creating that community
through the podcast, through the
book, through this directory,
through bringing
people together.
And I think we're
just getting started.
So with that, I want to
thank you guys for having me.
I'll stick around for Q&A and be
here afterwards to sign books.
But I hope this kind of
touches on the real story
behind the book.
And I appreciate you guys
letting me come and tell it.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
SPEAKER 1: So we have about
15 minutes for Q&A. So
if anybody would like
to ask a question,
we need to pass
around the microphone.
But I'll start off
by asking, for people
who aren't 100% sure
what their passion is,
but they know they want
to explore something,
whether it be more creative,
more engineering-focused,
maybe their own start up.
How do they discover that
passion while also moving along
this journey?
MIKE LEWIS: Like I said, I think
social media and pop culture
really kind of overblows this
find your passion, follow it.
It's not like finding
sugar at the grocery store.
It's like, those
things take time.
You need to first,
I think, consider
what makes you curious.
And there's a story in the book
from a fitness entrepreneur.
And he has a great
piece of advice.
It's actually about training
and being in the gym.
He says, you know,
a lot of people,
especially in the new year,
say I want to get fit.
And then he says, show me
how you spend your time
and I'll show you what
your priorities are.
Because most people say,
I'd love to get fit,
but then they don't go to
the gym, they don't work out.
And I think it's the
same about what do
you like to do outside of work.
Or if you want to
become an engineer,
are you or are you spending
time towards that thing?
And if you don't
know what it is,
I would just say,
OK, take a morning
and look at what you
did the day before
and see what got
your attention, where
you started spending time,
what you were googling on
after work.
And I think from there
you start to pull threads.
But for me, this was never--
this was a hope that we
could bring the message out.
But I think "When to Jump"
came out of being like,
OK, I just want to
collect stories.
And then from that other
things started to evolve.
SPEAKER 1: And second question
before I open up to the floor,
there's a massive nervousness
around that moment
while you are
deciding to jump right
through to actually jumping.
Can you give any
advice to everyone
who's thinking about a
transition right now?
Ways to approach
it, mindset to take.
Do you just go for it or
do you really consider
it, take three months?
What's your advice?
MIKE LEWIS: I don't know if
this is weird to preface,
but I don't consider
myself a self-help guru
or qualified to give everybody
advice on their life.
I think everyone
lives a life that's
very complicated and
specific to yours.
And I can only reflect on the
research we've done in the book
and being lucky to
spend time with people
who have taken the steps
to think through their job.
For me it's how the
book's organized.
So there's four
phases that it seems
like anyone goes through when
they make a jump in their life.
The first is listening
to that little voice.
The second one is making
a plan, which is, I,
think the bulk of it,
these 10,000 unsexy steps.
That includes kind of sewing a
safety net in your current job,
especially if you're
looking to move internally.
It seems like doing the job
you're doing really well
and getting a lot of
support around that,
building a good reputation is
a good foundation to jump from.
And then there's letting
yourself be lucky.
So once you've actually
planned the jump
and you've solved for
all you can solve--
I don't think there's
ever a perfect time to go,
but I think you've
set yourself up to run
into fortuitous opportunities.
And I think that's probably my
favorite section of the book
is hearing about people
who just trusted your gut.
And that's, by the
way, really hard.
But I think, to your
question, if you
do the other things, by
the time you actually jump,
there isn't as
much of a downside.
SPEAKER 1: OK.
MIKE LEWIS: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: Thank you.
Would anyone like
to ask a question?
AUDIENCE: It's a
very open question.
MIKE LEWIS: Cool.
I'll give a really open answer.
AUDIENCE: It's
like, what's your--
I have read many books and
they're mostly for Americans.
And when you try to
apply them in UK,
it sometimes doesn't work.
It mostly doesn't work.
So since you've been around,
you've been in New Zealand,
et cetera, how do we
localize stuff from your book
or what we read around?
MIKE LEWIS: Yeah.
So The book has 44 stories
that represent, I don't think,
the viewpoint of
one nationality.
There's a really
strong immigrant thread
through the book,
from Chinese-Americans
to El Salvadorians to Nigerians.
We have several folks in the
book from the United Kingdom.
And then we have people
in the book that I just
met while I was traveling,
people from New Zealand
through Asia, and here in
the-- or there in the States.
What I find really interesting--
maybe this isn't the answer
to the question.
But I think that
there's something
fundamental to how you think
about what you do everyday.
I think we constantly,
as humans--
it's part of being human,
wondering is this the way
it's supposed to be
spending my time.
I think that's the core of
the book is not so much, oh,
jump because it's a cultural
thing or you're a millennial.
We have a woman who's 67
years old who's in the book.
We have a single mom in Boston.
We have an Indian
woman in Guilford.
The powerful part to me is that,
given all of the disparities,
there's just fundamental truths
that come out of this idea
that we think about.
And maybe it won't--
it's actually-- I mean, it's
going great in the States.
But we've had an amazing
reception here, I think,
because maybe there isn't
as much of a conversation
openly about going off the path.
We did an event with Lululemon
and one of the panelists
was this Indian woman from
Guilford who is in a career
and worked in
fashion on the side
and ended up going
into current fashion.
And we spent most of the time
talking about British culture
and traditional cultures,
where that's not
what your parents did, that's
not what your friends are
doing, what that means if
you're culturally not supposed
to do that.
So I think we do a decent job of
sharing those types of stories.
We also have these
festivals where we
try to go into different areas.
London will be our first
one this September.
Abby's with me.
She's our event director.
She's back there.
If you're interested
in being a part of it,
or if you think there's things
we should know as we plan it,
I'd be thrilled,
because we're spending
this week getting going.
And we also want to do something
special for everyone at Google
if they end up wanting to come.
But I think it's important to
go there and learn the stories
and be there.
And I was lucky
that squash gave me
that kind of excuse to sit
down and have thousands
of these conversations.
But I'm sure there's
stuff we're missing,
and maybe that's
for the next book.
I don't know.
And by the way,
as we pass it on,
my email-- if you just
email info@whentojump.com,
that goes to our platform,
which I can promise you
will come to me
almost immediately.
And just say you want
info on the London event,
and we'll make sure
you're on the list.
And Abby's email's just
A-B-B-Y @ whentojump.com.
But truly, this is
day two of thinking
about what we'll
do in September,
so welcome all
ideas and feedback.
AUDIENCE: I have two
questions in one.
Is it working?
MIKE LEWIS: Yeah.
AUDIENCE: So the name of
the book is "When to Jump,"
not "If to Jump," so it kind
of implies a positive outcome.
So is it really always positive?
And I'm assuming that the
44 stories in the book,
since they made it to
the book, are positive.
So what is the most blissful
failure you've seen?
And what do you actually define
as a failure in this case?
MIKE LEWIS: So your
assumption's actually incorrect,
which is, I think, a good thing.
The fourth phase of this jump
curve is don't look back,
and that's kind
of code for being,
like, the stories that didn't
really go the way they thought.
And I think that's
important because it'd
be a little weird to
just show you 44 stories
where it just all was
exactly as planned.
We have both internal jumps that
kind of didn't go as planned
as well as people who took a
big risk and it didn't work out.
To me-- and again, maybe this
is just super optimistic.
But from every
conversation I've had
since five years ago talking
to that cyclist, the people who
took the time to take that
middle ground of planning
and thinking and budgeting,
all the stuff that's really not
that riveting to talk
about or share on Facebook
and all that stuff,
if you went and did
that, those people who ended up
you jumped in it didn't really
work out, it led them to
something else that might still
be working but is
getting them closer
to what they want to be doing.
So no one that I've
talked to who's
followed this framework,
if you will, these phases,
has regretted the decision.
And in fact, when I
was taking the jump,
I sought out people who
just fell on their face,
jumped and nothing worked.
And they were the biggest
advocates and the loudest
cheerleaders.
And I would challenge you to
do the same if you're thinking
about "if" rather than "when."
Like, talk to the
people who I call--
there's three types of
people you should talk to.
One, a Switzerland,
who has no total bias
in one way or the other,
like not the person who
is the massive jumper
and not your parents who
really don't want you to
do it, but Switzerland.
And then find the
missed, which is
the person who missed the
opportunity and didn't jump.
Because that's another theme
is, if you really want to go
do what you're doing and you're
worried about if you should do
it, talk to the people who
missed that chance because that
will probably get you going.
And then three
would be the oops,
which is the person who's jump
didn't exactly go as planned.
And I would say that that
would be a first easy exercise,
to just find those types
of people, the three folks,
and see what they have to say.
Because I think
you'd be surprised.
I think the human
psyche is one where
we go to the worst
possible place in our mind
and that's not always very fair.
AUDIENCE: Thanks.
AUDIENCE: Hey.
So I think a lot of people
at different organizations
in society were encouraged
to focus on our strengths.
And I think it's
easier to make a jump
if you're going from
strength to another strength.
But in the case of if you want
to go from eh to something
that you were weak
at, like I'm thinking
when you said you were--
when you jumped to squash.
Like, it's not something
that you were strong at.
Just advice between the
two different jumps,
something that you're
strong at and then something
that you're weak at.
MIKE LEWIS: Yeah.
There's a great--
there's a story
in the book about a
woman who was at LinkedIn
and jumped internally from
a research role to sales.
And she really it was
not a sales person,
had studied hard core
analytics in school
but had always wanted
to work with people
on the external side.
And I think it comes down
again to being like who's
doing the thing that
I want to be doing,
and will they let me have
30 minutes with them.
Can I buy them a cup of coffee?
And just going at
that weakness until--
and this sounds cliche--
but until that becomes the thing
that you feel like you know
better than your current job.
And I think the hard part, at
least it was for me at Bain
and maybe for you
guys at Google,
is once you get in that
spot where you feel really
like you know how everything
works, it almost--
it's like an all
or nothing thing.
It's like I can't leave this
because then I won't know
anything about the other thing.
And if you can always be
on that edge of your seat,
even if you're doing for
eight hours a day the thing
we're supposed to
do, but at lunch
you go take a
programming course or you
talk to the person who's
doing what you want.
That stuff, I think, if you
feel like it gets into a routine
and it's like there's a
circularity to your day
in your job, I think
that's like a signal
that you're coasting maybe
more than you probably want to.
But maybe that's
what you need, too.
Like, there's a spectrum of--
I think the jump curve
is like a spectrum.
If you've just had a
third child or you've
got student debts to
pay back or a mortgage,
I wouldn't say that you
need to jump just then.
But you can be having those
chats of what you want to do,
you can be planning.
And then at some point there
will be opportunity, I think,
to do it.
I mean, no one in the
book jumped the next day.
It was months, if not-- some
people waited two years,
five years to do it.
So I know that wasn't
exactly what you asked.
AUDIENCE: No, I think
it's on the mark.
MIKE LEWIS: Sweet.
AUDIENCE: I think I
can do without the--
MIKE LEWIS: Oh, I think they
need that, though, for the--
AUDIENCE: Oh, they need it.
OK.
Curious to know if-- well,
first of all, thanks.
Thanks for sharing your story,
very courageous and very
inspiring.
I'm curious to know whether,
through the 44 stories that
are in the book and perhaps the
other stories that didn't make
it, did you find any common
traits in the personality
of people, would
you say, if they
had a couple of things common.
People talk about
the whole range,
you know, discipline,
visionary, whatever.
I wonder if you picked on
any commonality across.
MIKE LEWIS: To be
honest, I think
that my whole thesis with
the book and what I feel
drives me to do this is that
I think we tend to just find
these buzzwords, and we feel
like we have to only give them
to some people.
And then we feel like
the other people just
weren't born with those traits.
And the whole point of
this book and the community
is that we celebrate the
person you walk by in the tube
or going for coffee,
and their jump.
And I actually think
there's nothing
that the people have in
common, except for this feeling
that as you get
a little bit more
into thinking of
what you want to do,
this equation starts to go
unbalanced, where it goes
from well, it could be
really bad if I did it
and it's not worth
doing it to saying,
OK, there's a worst
case scenario of going
and that's terrifying.
But each of the people in
the book would show you,
and in their stories
you'll see, that idea
of not trying ultimately
is way more terrifying.
So I don't think there's
like a special super power.
I think it's this realization
of if you peel back
the layers, at some point you're
going to see this worst case
scenario isn't as bad,
especially if you're
a place like Google.
And if you end up
jumping outside of Google
don't blame me.
You can if you want.
But I think that it
goes for anything.
Like if you want to change
jobs within the company,
there's so much more at stake
for them to keep you and find
the right role
for you, and maybe
if it doesn't work,
find a different role,
than to go outside and take
a chance on a stranger.
If think of human resources
and human capital,
you guys made it
into the circle.
You should feel like you've got
all the launching pad you have
and all the risk opportunity
to take because you're already
there.
AUDIENCE: Thank you.
MIKE LEWIS: And
by the way, I wish
I had a key card
because I would--
if you're enjoying
the meal, just
keep going because I really
wish that I had that these days.
Maybe your 401(k) too.
AUDIENCE: Thank you.
My question was quite
similar to that one,
but with a bit of a twist.
So you've spoken
quite a lot about--
you use the word
risk quite a lot.
And obviously there's a lot
of conversation about gender
and men and women
and the differences,
and I think almost
probably over-discussed.
But something that everyone's
talking about quite a lot
is that women are probably just
less inclined to take risks,
they're more risk-averse.
And it doesn't sound
like that played out,
but did you see anything
like that in your research?
MIKE LEWIS: So the second story
in the book-- the first story
is about a karate school manager
who wanted to be a screenwriter
and failed a bunch of times,
and then tried one more time
and he ended up writing
"Sleepless in Seattle."
And then the second story is of
a 44-year-old woman and mother,
single mother, who left her job
as a nurse to become a doctor.
And I think in her
story, it definitely
reflects the unique
challenges that women
face different than
men in taking a jump.
She was told early on that she
wasn't the type of person that
could go to college.
She then had a child and
had to care for the child,
and couldn't do both
as a single parent.
So I think there are--
and I'm not the expert.
I would say speak to
women who have jumped.
But from the data,
it's just seems
like there are obstacles,
not insurmountable ones,
but obstacles you
have to feel like,
OK, I know what I'm going
to have to overcome.
But I don't think it's
as, again, as literal
and is tactically challenging
as we may make it seem.
And there's women
in the book who
jumped with kids, who jumped
going through a divorce, who
jumped planning
to have a family,
like things that you think
would be kind of end all,
be all stopping jumps.
And they were able to do it.
So there's a bunch
more in the book
of how they went
and did that, but I
would say it's not as
insurmountable as it may seem.
And our audience, by the way,
and community members are--
more than half are
women who have jumped.
AUDIENCE: I have a question.
How did you get the
Olympian's number?
MIKE LEWIS: That's
a great question.
No one's asked that.
AUDIENCE: Well, I noticed.
I was like, I'm going to wait--
MIKE LEWIS: No.
No one's asked that ever before.
AUDIENCE: Oh, really?
OK, but yeah.
I'd like to know.
Thanks.
MIKE LEWIS: I have a really
funny side story to that,
too, that I feel like
I should just tell.
So had she went to a
university and then I
had a friend who knew a friend
of hers, because they were--
she was five years
ahead of me, which
is another-- like, the reason
we're making this directory is
it shouldn't be that difficult.
And I was really lucky
that I knew somebody.
But she's someone who
would take anybody's call.
No one had asked her about that.
When I got to the second
baseman for the Cubs--
you can Google it.
He had just done a piece
in "The New Yorker."
in "The New York Times."
And I was living in Zimbabwe
at the time, Facebook
messaging him.
And you guys know when
you're not a Facebook
friend where those messages go?
Yeah, to, like, the weird box.
Like no one should respond.
It's just not even, I
don't think, a thing.
And I think I e-mailed him,
like, six times to that inbox.
And finally he was
like, I want to be
able to tell this story of
when you shouldn't jump.
Because he had jumped
at the wrong time and he
had to go back to baseball
and all these things.
To tell you the funny
story, we started
partnering with Soul Cycle,
which I know is in the States,
not here.
But it's like the
spinning, whatever.
And when I came back
to the US, and we
starting working
with Soul Cycle,
I tracked down the cyclist.
And I was like, can we hang out?
And she was like, yes.
And I was like--
I'd mentioned in
passing that we started
partnering with Soul Cycle.
She's like, oh, I'd love to go.
I've never gone.
And I was like, this is like
a SportsCenter commercial.
Like here's a woman who's
a two-time Olympian.
She just finished in Rio.
And so we go in, and we had
just done a talk with them
at Soul Cycle.
And we go into this class,
and I'm next to the Olympian.
She's fastening her shoes
that she had in Rio.
And I'm like, don't
freak out, Mike.
And the instructor's
like, is Mike Lewis here?
And she's like, is that you?
And I was like, no, no, no.
Don't worry about it.
Not me.
And they're like, no, no, no.
We need to all give
Mike Lewis a hand
for coming in here
because "When to Jump"
is going to change
everyone's life.
And everyone had to
give around of applause.
And she's like,
are you kidding me?
But she's become a friend.
First of all, thank you for
Google, to put this on for
and give a round of applause.
I really appreciate
you doing this.
If I don't get to chat today,
if you want to learn more,
like I said, info@whentojump.com
will get to me.
We have the directory
and we have the festival.
Abby is just
A-B-B-Y @whentojump.
And I really hope
this is helpful.
I hope it's interesting.
Tell your friends, and
thanks so much for coming.